# Remaining Useful Life prediction of aircraft turbofan engines using machine learning

Contains code and artifacts related to the masters dissertation project for the MSc Data Science degree at UWE Bristol, Sept 2021-2022. 

## Dataset 
The N-CMAPSS dataset was used for this work. It can be found in the NASA prognostics data repository. Owing to its large size it has not been included in this repository, to run any of the code/notebooks, create a `/data` directory at root level, unzip the relavent `.h5` file into it. 
The subset of data used in this repo was `N-CMAPSS_DS02.h5` which contains readings from 9 turbofan engine units.

The dataset is currently offline for maintenance, but can usually be downloaded from [the NASA data portal](https://data.nasa.gov/dataset/C-MAPSS-Aircraft-Engine-Simulator-Data/xaut-bemq).

## Folder structure
* `/docs` contains documents including the original publication by Chao et al for the N-CMAPSS dataset, and the EDA report generated by pandas profiling.
* `/graphs` contains all the plots generated and used for the thesis. Additional sensor plots which were not included in the thesis can be found in the `/graphs/sensors` directory.
* `/notebooks` contains Jupyter notebooks related to the thesis. 
    * `1-eda` - Contains exploratory data analysis and outcomes (graphs, plots etc) related to the DS02 subset of the N-CMAPSS dataset.
    * `2-data_prep` - Contains code related to data preparation. Some further exploration, removal of additional/unecessary variables and formatting for further analysis.
    * `3-model_selection` - Contains random experiements done to identify the bounds of which parameters could be executed feasibly on the dataset without overreaching resource limits.
    * `4-model_comparison` - Contains the grid search, LOGO based cross validation to identify parameters and evaluate model performance of the three shortlisted models based on the output of notebooks 1-3.
